[Music]
assalamu alaikum and welcome to titli's
busy kitchen with me titli nihaan
whenever I'm shopping in the Middle East
or North Africa I love to eat the
falafel and my Egyptian colleagues tell
me that they make the best falafel but
then every Egyptian man I've ever met
has told me he's a really good cook
cannot be true there are many variations
of falafel and I'm just going to show
you a simple one but you can look at my
website for different versions I've
taken 250 grams of dried chickpeas and
I've soaked them overnight a word of
warning
never never never use tinned chickpeas
because this happens
I've got one small onion coarsely
chopped 2 cloves of garlic coarsely
chopped 2 teaspoons each of coriander
powder and cumin powder a teaspoon of
salt and half a teaspoon of baking soda
and half a cup of freshly chopped
coriander first thing I'm gonna do is
process the chickpeas and I've got a 1
liter processor
[Applause]
go scrape around approach this things
for about a minute
quite fining texture no I process the
other half when you've processed your
chickpeas process together the onion and
the garlic
they'll add it into your chickpeas now
adding the coriander and the hurt and
spices and mix well once it's all nicely
mixed take a piece about the size of a
golf ball and press it firmly into a
ball shape okay that looks good and you
should be able to make about 14 or 15
falafel now you can show them fry these
if you like but I'm going to deep-fry
mine at 180 degrees C for about three
minutes
after three minutes remove from the oil
and drain on some kitchen paper now that
I've got my falafel I need to make some
dips promoting any sauce I've got six
tablespoons of tahini paste the juice of
a lemon one crushed clove of garlic and
half a teaspoon of salt I'll just mix
all these together and give them a good
whisk and you should end up with this
lovely creamy dip for a cucumber mint
dip start with half a cucumber peel it
off scoop out the seeds with a teaspoon
then grate the flesh put the flesh in a
bowl add in one crushed garlic clove
about two tablespoons of freshly chopped
mint and a cup of yogurt then mix well
make sense add falafel with a cucumber
mint tip under tahini sauce great for a
supper someone great mystery that
remains from all of this is whether or
not Egyptian men are better cooks and
Egyptian women all are Egyptian men
simply full of true next time in titli's
busy kitchen with me today hard until
next time what happens
[Music]